# IHR-costing
The IHR Costing Tool helps users generate and review cost estimates to support practical planning for sustainable capacity development to prevent, detect, and respond to public health threats, as defined by the International Health Regulations (IHR).

## Data directory

This directory contains the underlying datasets that power the IHR costing tool. For additional information, please see the data dictionary included as part of this repository (Data Dictionary.xlsx). Unless otherwise specified, files are saved as .tsv files (tab separated values) and can be opened using your analysis software of choice, including Excel.


| File                    |  Source                                        | Data last updated
| :---                    | :---                                           | :--- 
| metrics.tsv             | multiple (see below)                           | 7 July, 2023
| countries.tsv           | multiple (see generate-country-data)           | 7 July, 2023
| unit_costs.tsv          | GHSS Research Team                             | 26 January, 2024
| detailed_costing.tsv    | GHSS Research Team                             | 7 July, 2023
| line_items.tsv          | GHSS Research Team                             | 26 January, 2024

### metrics.tsv
This file contains information on the indicators and attributes associated with the first and third editions of the [Joint External Evaluation (JEE)](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240051980), the second edition of the [IHR State Party Self-Assessment Annual Report (SPAR)](https://www.who.int/emergencies/operations/international-health-regulations-monitoring-evaluation-framework/states-parties-self-assessment-annual-reporting), and the Health Emergency Preparedness, Response and Resilience (HEPR) systems capacities identified in annex 1 of the [WHO Report on "Strengthening the Global Architecture for Health Emergency Preparedness, Response and Resilience"](https://www.who.int/emergencies/operations/universal-health---preparedness-review), associated with the Universal Health & Preparedness Review process. 

   - **data last updated:** 7 July, 2023
   - **grain:** one row per indicator per attribute/score pair
   - **source or reference:** 
      - World Health Organization. Joint external evaluation (JEE) tool: International Health Regulations (2005) [Internet]. Geneva: World Health Organization. Available from: https://apps.who.int/iris/handle/10665/204368
      - World Health Organization. Joint external evaluation tool: International Health Regulations (2005)- third edition. Available from: https://www.who.int/publications-detail-redirect/9789240051980 
      - World Health Organization. IHR State Party Self-Assessment Annual Report (SPAR), second edition [Internet]. Available from: https://www.who.int/emergencies/operations/international-health-regulations-monitoring-evaluation-framework/states-parties-self-assessment-annual-reporting
      - World Health Organization. 10 proposals to build a safer world together: Strengthening the Global Architecture for Health Emergency Preparedness, Response and Resilience. Available from: https://www.who.int/emergencies/operations/universal-health---preparedness-review


### line_items.tsv
This file documents the activities and costs associated with the activitites articulated by the included metric frameworks (e.g., JEE, HEPR, see above). For attributes of the JEE, the file documents the activities identified as required to progress from a score of 1 (or above) to a score of 4. The file was generated by the GHSS research team on the basis of prior and ongoing research.

   - **data last updated:** 26 January, 2024
   - **grain:** one row per costed line-item (e.g., activity, unit cost pair)
   - **source or reference:** GHSS Research, citations and URLs included throughout

### unit_costs.tsv
This file contains information on default unit costs for items included in the IHR costing tool. Of note, these costs are best determined on a local and/or regional basis, as unit costs can and do vary substantially from location to location, particularly unit costs associated with personnel salaries. These references are intended to serve as defaults and available references, but are not meant to replace local expertise in procurement, budgeting, and supply chain expertise.

   - **data last updated:** 26 January, 2024
   - **grain:** one row per unit cost
   - **source or reference:** GHSS Research, citations and URLs included throughout

### detailed_costing.tsv
This file is included for reference only, and contains documentation of any subcosts used to estimate the unit costs reported in the file unit_costs.tsv. For example, the unit_costs table includes the cost of an "outbreak investigation kit", this detailed costing spreadsheet documents the underlying costs used to calculate that cost on the basis of the items identified as required for an outbreak investigation kit in [Connolly MA, Organization WH. Communicable disease control in emergencies: a field manual. World Health Organization; 2005 cited 2022 Oct 21. vii, pg. 234. Available from: https://apps.who.int/iris/handle/10665/96340

   - **data last updated:** 7 July, 2023
   - **grain:** one row per item
   - **source or reference:** GHSS Research, citations and URLs included throughout

### countries.tsv
This file contains information on geographic areas, including countries and other territories, based on data from a number of sources. Please see the generate-country-data/ subdirectory for more information, references, and documentation of data processing

   - **data last updated:** 7 July, 2023
   - **grain:** one row per country or area
   - **source or reference:** (multiple, please see the generate-country-data/ subdirectory for more info)

